docs - CLI analytics (#79551)
metabase/metabase: docs/monitor/cli-analytics.md

---
title: CLI analytics
summary: See which operations the Metabase CLI runs, who runs them, and when each person last used the CLI.
---

# CLI analytics

{% include plans-blockquote.html feature="CLI analytics" %}

_Monitor > CLI analytics_

> The CLI analytics page shows how people are using the [Metabase CLI](../installation-and-operation/metabase-cli.md) with your instance. Metabase records one row for every API call the CLI makes, so you can see whether anyone has picked up the CLI, which operations they run, how often they run them, and when each person last used it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLI analytics page shows how people use the [Metabase CLI](../installation-and-operation/metabase-cli.md) with your instance. Metabase records one row for every API call the CLI makes, so you can see whether anyone is using it, which operations they run, how often they run them, and when each person last used it.
```

Admins and people in groups with [Monitoring access](../permissions/application.md#monitoring-access) can view CLI analytics. See [Permissions for Monitor](./start.md#permissions-for-monitor).

The page has two tabs:

- **Usage**: Charts that summarize CLI activity over the date range you pick.
- **Calls**: One row per call, so you can look at individual requests.

> Both tabs share the same filters.

Reviewer: Suggest moving this line under the Filters heading, as the section's opening line

## Filters

> - **Date range**: The time window the page covers. Defaults to the previous 30 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Date range**: The time window the page covers. Defaults to the last 30 days.
```

- **User**: Limit to a single person (or **All users**).
- **Group**: Limit to a single [group](../people-and-groups/managing.md) (or **All groups**).

> - **Tenant**: Limit to a single [tenant](../embedding/tenants.md). Only shows up if tenants are enabled.

Reviewer: Suggest reordering this list to match the UI, which shows Group, User, then Date range

## Usage

The Usage tab summarizes the calls that match your filters:

- **Calls by client over time**: A time series of call volume, split by client.
- **Calls by client**: How many calls came from the Metabase CLI versus everything else. See [How Metabase identifies clients](#how-metabase-identifies-clients).
- **Calls by operation**: Which operations get called most, like `GET /api/card/:id`.
- **Calls by user**: Who makes the most calls.
- **User activity**: A table of everyone who has used the CLI, including when they were last active. Use it to spot people who tried the CLI once and stopped, or credentials that are still running calls after someone has moved on.

### Error charts only appear when calls have failed

If any calls in your date range failed, Metabase adds an **Errors** section below the charts with:

- **Calls by status over time**: Successful calls next to failed ones.
- **Errors by operation**: Which operations fail most.

> Widen the date range if you're expecting errors and don't see the section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're expecting errors and don't see the section, widen the date range.
```
